Here's another thing I figured out.
Let's say you're in Mexico and it's 1950.
And you have an aunt that dies.
She leaves you 100 pesos.
So you say a peso at that time was like 50 cents on the dollar.
One American dollar would buy two pesos.
because there's still gold and silver behind the peso.
So you say, well, I don't need the hundred dollars.
I'm going to put it away for savings.
You know, hide it in the cookie jar, so to speak.
So you go to the bank and you buy a 50 peso gold coin and you put away a 50 peso bill.
Here it is, 1990.
You say, well, I'm going to go, I remember that
little savings I put away, I'm going to go and get it and see what I can get for it.
That 50 peso gold coin's worth about 450 American dollars, and that 50 peso bill, American dollar, it's about 2,900 to one now.
So you divide 50 into 2,900.
You know, it takes 2,900 paper pesos to make a dollar where
50 gold pesos equal 450 American dollars.
That's how the government swindled people, currency.
So that's why I was putting my money into that.
Unless a hot bargain come along, like, you know, if I could buy a big collection of books or stained glass windows or something that I could work, that I needed for research or
That Oregon collection that they described, was that one of your favorite collections?
Oregon collections?
The one that they came from Oregon that they described yesterday?
The stuff that came from Oregon?
Oh, not really.
I don't know that.
It seemed like the most intense, the most extensive single collection.
Oh, what, the manuscripts?
Yeah.
No, I'm not familiar with manuscripts that much.
They said $500,000, $600,000.
No, that was the... I think that was that Norberg Chronicle stuff.
No, no, I thought it was the guy from Oregon.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
I never got a chance to research that stuff, to read it, to use it.
I'm glad they got it back.
That's salvation.
I wish I could have read it.
Now, is that something that you had actually wanted, or was it one of the opportunities that presented itself?
Well, in a way, yeah.
In a way, the latter?
Yeah.
Well, it may have been such a long time before they realized it wasn't there.
That one's just almost as wild as a piece of string.
You're going to tell me about that.
Oh, after the trial.
Even if I shut this off?
No, after the trial.
OK.
OK, good.
Well, a person has to be resourceful, you know.
I think this is a pleasant experience for all of us.
Oh, yeah, Adam.
Good to have you guys along.
And with friends.
Isn't it nice?
Yes.
Now, were you ever a Boy Scout or anything?
I was a Cub Scout.
Were you?
Did you acquire a lot of this resourcefulness, do you think, from, uh... No, I acquired it.
Scouting or...?
I acquired it on the street, and the necessity's a mother of invention.
I just sort of figured things out, you know.
So you could really write a book, you know, about this.
Oh, you think so.
About this.
Oh, yeah.
Or we could really talk about it at length.
I mean, I think people would be fascinated to learn how this was done.
Oh.
Not how for the sake of providing a blueprint, but I think the experiences, the anecdotal... Oh, yeah.
Yeah, it was interesting.
It was a high, you know.
Was it a high?
Yeah.
Like digging in that box at an auction and...
finding the last late-side classic you need to complete your set.
In your mind's eye, was the scope of what you had established for yourself, for your collection?
I didn't really understand the scope of it.
I'm not talking about the massiveness.
No, I mean the quality.
The quality, but there was certainly, you understood the focus, because you established the focus, the focus of the collection.
What do you mean?
You're collecting areas, the particular areas.
Well, I'd read of those areas.
That's how I learned about them and was curious about them.
But I'm saying, did you ever feel that you were close to completing the film for the collection?
Yeah, I was getting there.
I was right.
I had a feeling I was getting close to the magnitude of Streeter in the Americana.
I'd just love to see the bibliography and compare it.
I've got a copy of Streeter.
I have Streeter.
I got it from Jenkins.
I got mine from Gladly Martin.
I got that at the Martin sale.
And I'd like to compare
If the government would do an accurate survey, I'd like to compare my... Of course, they're not going to break it down by subject.
I think they're going to break it down by provenance.
I don't think the government's capable of doing that kind of a bibliographic comparison.
No, no, no.
They're not capable of doing much of anything.
I mean, you're asking now for a pretty sophisticated... I mean, let's be real here.
They can't even use the word presently correctly.
Yeah.
But I could do that, go through there.
In fact, in my own head, if you gave me a copy of Streeter, I could sit down and annotate that.
I knew in my mind what I had.
Was Streeter something of a model for you?
Well, in imprints.
He was real strong in imprints.
Did you emulate a model for you to emulate the collector?
Well, it depends.
Streeter, like I say, I like it for imprints.
He had, like, newspaper for his publishing and that.
I'd say Brindley was more of a problem.
Do you have a Brindley catalog?
I have three sets.
Oh, really?
Yep.
What do you need three for?
Oh, I don't know.
I just kind of got carried away with myself.
Maybe I could buy one from you at some point.
Well, you don't need three, do you?
No, but the government has them.
Oh.
Do those belong to you, or will they go elsewhere?
Well, one of them will be mine.
Well, that's yours.
I'm still going to find my Brindley.
I don't know.
You know, one of them is questionable.
In their mind or in their minds?
In their minds.
So I may have one.
I don't know.
No, I thought you said you had three.
Well, I did have three sets.
I understand, but you don't really.
You have one.
One that's yours.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Ma and Pa Gas.
You need a fan belt on this, my friend.
Yeah.
It only does that after dark.
I don't know.
I work on it in the daytime.
I can't get to do it.
It's a weird thing.
Mm-hmm.
It's probably when it's cold, actually.
You don't know if my engine's hot.
And we're back in, uh... Oskaloosa, Iowa.
This is where we had lunch or whatever.
I've had a flight lunch.
The chili was great.
And the, uh, let me see if I can remember the name of that block.
What, Kinkleman?
The, uh... Frankel block.
Frankel.
You know, one of my favorite ethnic folk bands was a Jewish New York folk band.
It was Lieutenant Josh Frankel's Yiddish Dance Band.
And he was popular in New York around World War I, and I just loved his records, you know.
The more contemporary band was a band called, I think, Marty Katz and his Katzenjammers.
He was back in the 40s.
But, you know, I like ethnic music.
German military marches for Germany and Russian bala-laka orchestras for Russia and Jewish.
Well, I'm Greek, you know, I do all of that.
The Greek bouzoukia music.
Oh, yeah.
You probably haven't met many Greeks.
There aren't many.
There are some in Iowa.
I meet them usually in restaurants.
We own them.
The Greeks own all the restaurants.
That's right.
You know them?
I don't, I don't know.
Johnny's best friend.
There used to be a teak pole for him.
It has been suggested, Stephen, that maybe this is a whistleblower suggestion by the defense, but we live in the Victorian age.
Oh?
Yeah.
Do you think that's a preposterous suggestion?
It would have been a better age to live.
We really live the way we are.
We're either influenced by what's outside of us or what's within us, you know.
We can choose.
to conform to the external things to a greater or less degree, or we choose not to.
I don't know, maybe in somebody else's perspective, from the outside looking at me, because we all live within ourselves, you know.
Maybe to some people it appears that way.
To me it appears.
You're living here and now in 1991.
Well, kind of in contrast to it in some respects, but everything I have and do is all right to me, you know.
Doesn't seem strange, but isn't that the way it is for all of us?
Yep.
Sure is.
How many miles would you say this car has got on it?
Oh, it doesn't have too many.
The odometer's broke.
I bought it.
It had 21,000.
It's got probably 60,000.
It was one owner.
You only had 21,000?
Yeah, I bought it for 15 years.
That's amazing.
Yeah, it was from a one owner from an estate.
You get 200,000 miles off of one of these old cabbies.
You like American cars.
You stick to American cars.
None of these foreign jobs.
Well, yeah, I do.
I don't know if I could get a big old Mercedes or something.
I'd travel.
It's so hard to find parts.
Yeah, I pretty much do.
Now, you know, there was a, were you ever interested, like, in the Gronier 100?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
I had that bibliography, and I had a,
A number of those.
Does that mean they mentioned the San Marano 80?
You know, I was within two copies of that.
Yes, I was.
You had 78?
Yes, I did.
There were only two other people that had 80.
Henry Clifford in the Yale, the Benecke Library at Yale.
Yeah, the Benecke.
Yeah.
You had 78 barists?
Yep.
Wow.
You want to shut that off?
Yeah, sure.
Let's do it again.
What's the chase?
The chase.
It gets worse the closer you get to achieving the ultimate, doesn't it?
It's agonizing.
Sometimes you wish you hadn't started.
You don't mean that, though.
Let me say, even with knowing with everything that's happened and that's about to happen, do you regret any of it?
You regret having put together that collection?
Well, not putting together the collection, but I regret my inconsideration of others.
I wouldn't do it again.
Ray Cornell suggested to me once that you thought you were rescuing these things.
Is that true?
Yeah, yeah.
Well, and all of it, you know, not only the books, but the doorknobs and the windows and the old house and even the people, Mr. Hall.
Adam today has been exposed to.
Tell me what you mean by rescuing them, rescuing these books.
If these books are removed, say, from the archives, the locked archives of USC or wherever, you know?
How is this an act of rescue?
Well, that's rationalization on my part.
I was sort of...
Oh, let's put it this way.
They were sort of on interlibrary loan to me.
That's what I think.
I don't know if they considered that.
So you went up to Dartmouth, too?
That's amazing.
You went everywhere up to Hanover.
You know, I've never been up to Hanover, New Hampshire, but I've lived in New England all my life.
Because that's the way the heck up there, Hadover is.
Yeah, I had a wonderful trip.
It was in the winter.
It took me a couple of months.
I crossed over into Detroit, and I drove to Montreal, and stayed there a month, and then went down that way.
Now, did you do any collecting up in Canada?
Some.
Did the same kind of procedures work up there as work down here?
Oh, yeah.
I didn't do that much of it.
Uh, what I wanted to go up there to, but it was so damn cold and I was alone.
I, the only place that I didn't get to that I wanted to get to was the Bibliothèque Laval.
Laval University.
And in, uh, Quebec.
Oh, right.
Oh, yeah, McGill.
That's the McLennan Library.
I didn't find McGill too fast.
I've never been there.
Yeah, it's right off, I think it's Dorchester Street.
I didn't live too far from there.
I lived in a rural San Loren or St.
Louis Avenue.
Yeah, that month I stayed in Montreal.
There's the second largest Hispanic Jewish community in North America is up there.
You know that?
And I lived in that community.
I enjoyed it.
Were you thinking of taking your collection to Mexico?
No.
I didn't have any kind of preparation, no.
I mean, is that a fabrication on Rhodes' Park?
Yeah.
You haven't done any research in Canada, huh?
I'm pulling up to Toronto, maybe in February.
Yes, there's a fantastic bibliography that's put out.
It's all on handmade paper.
It's a big folio of the, it's at McGill University now, Canadian Imprints.
What is that called?
It's a big volume.
It's a bibliography, a great big thing in the limited edition.
It's put out like 1960.
It's a bibliography, right?
Yeah, and it has its full page.
Reproductions of what?
Facsimile?
Yeah, but it's on this handmade paper and three-quarter leather binding.
What library is that?
It's one of the famous collections up there.
In Canada?
I'm not familiar with the Canadian collection.
If we could go through my books, I'd show it to you.
It'll come to me eventually, but that's at McGill University.
It's a Canadian influence.
I just added some shelves in my house, you know, for my books.
I mean, one of the great picks is just moving the books and putting them in the way you wanted.
They were all in the perfect order up there.
I had the Incanabula categorized by year, and I had the Americana by states and regions.
little special collections within the collection, you know, the Ferry fishing collection.
I understand they took you out to Omaha to see the stuff.
Yeah.
How did you feel when you went in there?
Like I was saying goodbye to an old friend.
Really?
Was it pain?
Yeah.
Physical as well as emotional?
I am mostly emotional.
And did you see these other people handling them crudely?
I didn't see them handling them crudely, but I seen them all out of order and seen that they'd been handled.
Did that disturb you?
Yeah.
Well, and the fact they were out of order, too.
But the collection is no longer a collection?
No.
Was it, in your view, a collection?
Yeah.
You know, a collection increases in value unto itself.
That's right.
It's synergistic, actually.
Yeah, yeah.
The sum of the whole is greater than its constituent parts.
That's right.
And that is true.
That's the definition of a collection.
Right, right.
Yeah.
Yeah, I wish I could get
a copy of all the titles and then put them back in order and just see what the collection was like and compare it to other collections, you know.
So you think you were close to Streeter and you think Brindley was in sight?
Brindley was pretty tough.
Yeah, real tough because of its time periods a hundred years before, but Brindley was the goal and Streeter I pretty much got to.
Because Isaiah Thomas was a whole different breed altogether.
Oh, yeah.
He was imprints.
He was imprints, newspapers.
Yeah.
Founder of the American Antiquarian Society.
In Worcester, Mass, where I work.
Yeah.
Right down the street for me.
Did you ever go through a Worcester?
Yep.
One of those weird towns where the streets go all over everywhere.
I like it crisscrossed.
Like, I'm a Midwesterner, you know, and you wind around.
I mean, there are eight or nine colleges there.
No major collections to speak of.
But Holy Cross is there.
Cloddard is there.
Worcester Polytech is there.
Robert Goddard invented the rocket there.
Did you know that?
Oh, yeah, no.
Robert Goddard taught at Cloddard.
In fact, I'm on the friends of the Goddard Library on the board.
Worcester, but they call it Worcester.
Worcester.
You know, I used to have a game I used to play with people that I knew, you know, and that was lookalikes.
And we'd travel through town after town.
And the best thing about a lookalike is to have somebody else that knows the person with you.
Well, I was in Worcester, and I went into a donut shop, and honest to God, I saw Dwayne Olsen there.
And I was with Wally, who was a friend of his.
A lookalike to Dwayne Olsen.
And it was such a startling look-alike, I went up and stared at him.
Then I went up and feigned using the phone, and I heard him in the background.
He even had the same voice.
So I said, I went out the car at the door, and I said, Wally, Dwayne's in there.
So he went in, and he seen him.
So what we'd do is, like you and I are old friends, and we have mutual associates, and we're traveling across the country.
So we go up to that associate and says, we seen you in Worcester, Mass.
And he'd say,
I've never been to Worcester, Mass.
What are you talking about?
Ask Wally.
He's seen him, too.
You know, and it was sort of a game I used to play.
I'll always remember that, so I saw Dwayne Olsen at Worcester, Mass.
Now were you just passing through?
No, I'd gotten a check in Brimfield, and I wanted to cash it, and I got in a fight with somebody in the bank because they wouldn't cash this check, and I'd sold some guys some windows.
I hadn't made the sale by...
partner had who I'd consigned stuff to, and the guy had an unpublished number, and it was on Saturday, and the bank wouldn't honor his check, and it was like the $1,300.
I wanted some more money so I could buy some more books and antiques at Brimfield.
As you know, the trouble with Brimfield is it's not like the Texas show where you go away with money.
Every time I go to Brimfield, I go away broke with stuff because you can just, everything you make, you can spend because there's so much
I wanted $1,300 more dollars, a stinking bank.
They said the funds were there.
The guy had like $50,000 in his account, but they wouldn't cash it because I didn't have a mass ID.
I get frustrated with these bureaucrats and these bankers.
He said, well, what's this Minnesota ID?
I said, I'm from Minnesota.
I said, if I had a mass ID, it wouldn't be legit.
He said, well, we can't honor this.
You don't have an account here.
You don't have a mass ID, and we can't reach the fellow.
I had to go all the way back to Minneapolis and deposit that check.
Oh, that stinks.
Yeah, and I was a little short.
There were a few bargains I could buy because of that.
My buddy I was telling you about that goes to New York with me, he goes to every Brimfield, and he's there at the opening bell at 5 o'clock in the morning.
You do your fields every day, May's Field or Quaker's Agents.
Oh, I do too.
In fact, I've got a number of my paintings.
I've got about eight or nine paintings in my notes with these mountains.
I bought some great door knobs and a few hooks.
What I have a nice collection of is that fresh.
Yeah.
Do people ski out here?
It doesn't look like there are any bones really.
That's pretty flat.
Ironically, and just quite coincidentally, a very good friend of mine.
One second, more prosecution.
This is 27 more.
Yeah.
They're probably going to wrap it up, because according to the judge, he said he thought that the prosecution would close on Monday.
I'm surprised at that.
I can't.
Well, they did throw stipulations.
I know, but still, in addition to the stipulations and the ones that testified, there's still 27 more.
I don't see how you can do 20 seconds in one day.
I don't either.
I'm just biting my tongue.
Some I'd rather see to have eaten.
I don't really see what they've got to do.
I mean, what more can they do?
Is there some you'd like to see to eat?
Oh, some of my friends that they've intimidated.
Poor Brian Toohey, they threw him in jail for eight months.
Told him I ratted on him.
And, you know, this Rhodes had taped it.
The only way they got on him was with this driver's license.
He wanted me to keep his ID, and I had it in the desk drawer, and they found him there in Rhodes and seen him on the way up and said all kinds of stuff about him.
So they picked him up in L.A.
He was a street kid.
He was just living out there.
Throw him in the cooler and said, well, we know this and this and this about you.
Now you tell us.
Steve told us that
You did this, and this, and this, or you were involved in this, and this, and this, and Steve was involved in this, or whatever.
So you either tell us, he's told us about you, so come clean, or we're going to do 10 years, so we can't.
And then they gave him a lawyer, and he pled him in 24 hours.
I'm surprised the judge had let that pass.
They like people to talk to us.
Well, he's done eight months in a jail, and they're going to, that's his sentence, like time served, and then they're going to let him go, so he's going to walk.
Yeah, but he had a pretty bad drug cocaine habit.
In fact, he was selling it on the street out there, and he came out to Iowa because he wanted to, I don't know drugs, and he wanted to dry out.
had like run away from home he wanted to get in the drug-free environment and get back with me and uh uh try to straighten himself out but he said he had some withdrawal pains and he got some snakey in houston that i had to put him i bought him a bus ticket to l.a and he went out there and he was wanted on some traffic tickets or something he wanted me to hold his id and he said by the time you get back up to iowa
I'll just have gotten another fix, or whatever they do, and got myself straightened out, and I'm going to try another shot at cleaning my addiction up.
Well, they never made it.
I got back north, got busted, and they found his ID, and they scooped him up out there, and had him in the cooler since July.
Telling him I betrayed him, you know, that's the worst thing, is telling him.
I don't think it's, yeah, yeah, it is.
Did you ever have your IQ tested?
No, I don't know what it is.
It's got to be very high.
Do you think so?
Yeah, because I don't know the dates.
Where are the dates?
It's a man of concepts and language.
I haven't thrown anything at him, but he hasn't had it.
Has Roger started coming in?
I've seen, I don't know, Henry Elton's Widener.
Not Harry Widener.
No, Harry.
The one that died on the Titanic.
He's in my book, too.
Harry's in my book.
There's some... I read one of these anecdotes of books that he died clutching his tomes and he bought at a sale.
He went over there to a sale, you know.
The story is... Did you say that you had an early edition of Bacon's essay?
Early edition of Bacon's essay.
It was a full reel.
Oh, that was a full reel.
Okay.
Well, what Harry had was in that babble, I think.
Oh, yeah.
It was a small one.
Yeah.
Why do you remember our collection?
He came with our collection, too.
Harry was?
Sure he was.
I'd just can't fall.
I've got Harry's own catalog of his collection that he issued prior to his death.
All of his books of his own collection.
This is while he's still alive.
That's a nice one.
That's nice.
Well, his father had a beautiful Victorian turret at home.
It was like a six-story job on Broad and Girard.
And the family donated to the city for a branch library.
And the city sold it or leased it.
When I was there about 12, 15 years ago, it was a black church.
Because North Broad Street out by Temple University is a real bad neighborhood.
And they ran into financial problems or something.
And the place, after I
seen it, got empty vandalized and burned down, and what a oh it was an incredible mansion you know of the fifth avenue caliber. You know they had this three-story huge art gallery behind it it was just an incredible like a wedding cake. It went up. Oh yeah I know. He wrote the rose yeah
He was able to speak to me both about Rosenbach.
He worked for him.
He and John Fleming had the book.
And then he also was able to tell me about the library company in Philadelphia, which is quite interesting.
Franklin did that.
Franklin did, that's correct.
Now, you know who the first great book collector was?
Laws of Pennsylvania, 1744.
You had a copy of that?
Yeah.
What was it, Franklin?
Laws of Pennsylvania, with a Franklin entrance.
Frankly, everything is so desirable.
This is a wonderful splendid job.
Where did that one come from?
Well, it was a bargain.
But it's one that probably won't be going back to the tumble.
Oh, sad to see.
Well, for a year and a half, the tumble was...
a literary spot, an unknown literary jewel in the Midwest.
Was it called an unknown?
Ottumbo, Iowa, was an unknown literary jewel.
Bibbophiles jewel.
But maybe it's only claimed to history in the future, other than having a big slaughterhouse there that closed.
That's the reason why the town exists there.
No culture, but...
I'm in a negative fashion, one of the things that will be noted.
Yeah, Adam?
Oh, somewhat.
I'm interested in black holes and antimatter.
Yeah, well, years ago, people used to navigate by those, you know.
They still do.
I went to Naval Office of Canada School.
I was in Naval Office.
Oh, they still have to study celestial navigation.
Yeah.
I'm interested in black holes because they claim stars are like sun.
They're matter-emitting energy, but they're also like black holes or black stars that are matter that attract energy.
They'll even attract light.
That's right.
Isn't that incredible?
That's why, supposedly, you can't see them.
Yeah.
They consume all the way.
Black holes, black , black .
that stars are like, matter is like in a pendulum of eons of years.
It'll be like a sun emitting energy so long until it's spent and then it goes into an anti-matter where it absorbs energy to a certain degree and then it explodes into emitting.
and then it goes back into absorbing as sort of a pendulum.
That's just theory in my head.
I don't know if there's any scientific basis, but have you ever considered that?
It's fascinating.
The heavens, the heavens absolutely astound me.
Would you agree with me?
Being Greek?
Greek mythology?
Well, it's even more than being Greek.
It is not mythology.
It's just how enormous and unfathomable it is.
But yet the smallest thing in matter, as well as the largest thing, there's a nucleus, which is the sun, with rotating
objects which are like planets and an atom is a nucleus with rotating electrons.
I've often thought in moments of whimsy, you know, that maybe we're on a small atom someplace.
Maybe we are part of a toenail on a leopard or something.
Yeah, I thought of that too.
Really?
Yeah.
Because if you look at them, they look precisely the same.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I've observed that too.
Yeah.
And who knows?
I mean, as my friend Shakespeare said, I love Shakespeare.
I just love Shakespeare.
I had a wonderful Shakespeare portfolio.
1683, wait a minute.
Yeah, I think the illustrations of Shakespeare have been taken out of another volume, remounted.
But it was the largest... It was the largest copy in Southern California.
It even exceeded the Huntington Library copy, because you know how they've all been trimmed to a certain degree, but this was the...
least cut.
It had been cut.
But you don't think it was the original frontispiece?
No, I think it, well, it was an original from another copy.
Oh, it was.
That's nice.
It's still the most desirable thing.
Yeah, but it was an original to the book itself.
But it was the original copper plate.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Portrait pulled from that plate.
Yeah, after this is over, I'll tell you where you'll be able to see it.
Or maybe I'll have to get it back to where it belongs.
I don't know.
Did you ever try to get a course for you?
I wasn't into Shakespeare that much.
I would have liked to.
You know what the ultimate manuscript is, literary manuscript?
It's a Shakespeare signature.
But there's some question as to whether Shakespeare exists.
You know, there's nothing in manuscript by Shakespeare.
No, I'm quite knowledgeable in the study of Shakespeare.
Nothing's ever turned up on Shakespeare.
Well, yes, well, there is, actually.
Isn't it questionable?
Wasn't he assuading him for Bacon?
No.
There's some controversy about that.
You know, as I say, if Shakespeare wasn't Shakespeare, it was somebody who was Shakespeare.
Who was capable of writing?
You see, they don't like to acknowledge the Shakespeare.
It's come up in his hand, though, hasn't it?
Well, there are six known signatures.
Oh, there are.
Three of them are on his will.
Three are on other documents.
There's a document in the British Library called, and it's an unfinished fragment.
It's an unfinished play, but it is about a local Minnesota author who wrote that Shakespeare was a
His name was Ignatius Donnelly, and he was an early territorial pioneer and writer in Minnesota.
It's odd that something of a literary nature like that would come out of Minnesota in the middle 19th century.
These theories are endemic.
I mean, they appear constantly.
But there has never been anything persuasive.
You see, the shape of playwrights in those days were not reputable people.
Yeah, actors even up to the mid-19th century were thought of.
They couldn't stay in a well.
Right across the street from the Globe Theater was the Bear Garden.
And you know what they did at the Bear Garden?
They made it to Adam.
I keep forgetting his name.
Kevin, they're not going to go back to East High School and they're going to be exposed to a cultural conversation like they're having.
I hope they're enjoying it.
Oh, I'm sure they are.
And that's one thing.
I like to bring culture to people that art don't always have.
You have to seek it out.
It's stimulating when it comes.
Yeah.
Of course, you're so refreshing because I can communicate.
We sort of hit it off.
I think we have that way.
Yeah.
I think we can be friends.
And I want you to know that
I'm not going to hurt you in this book.
Oh, I didn't think you would.
I'm going to tell the story.
You know that.
Yeah.
It's out in here.
Well, I'm going to tell it right.
I'm going to report what goes on in that courtroom.
I'm going to write about this day today that we've spent.
I'm so excited about what's happened today.
That's why I wanted to get to you.
You can't be told about my life.
You have to live it.
It's been wonderful.
Thank you.
It's a great moment for me.
It really is.
I mean, there's a lot of sincerity.
One of the wonderful things I think my book is going to do is that I have done nothing for clips.
You know that newspaper man, but that's the newspaper man's impression.
I like Iowa.
There's a beauty and an innocence and a youthfulness to Iowans, but it's somewhat of a culture shock to me because I'm an urbanite like you are.
How many apples is it?
It's a major city.
I'm an urbanite, you know.
And it's been a learning thing down here in Iowa in that, you know, I can see... It is something.
It is rather ironic in a way, isn't it?
That all these libraries and all these imputables and all these imprints and all this discussion of book plates
should be happening in the morning.
Or come to Iowa, yeah.
Well, I mean, but even the forum where he's being judged.
It's an anachronism.
It is.
I keep looking at those 14 people in the jury box, and I say, what are they making out of this?
They're going to sleep somehow.
Yeah, but I mean, I am fascinated.
I know Ray looked at me yesterday, and he said, you were really excited.
But he says, oh, isn't it?
Do I have to hold on?
He was really excited about that Nuremberg Chronicle.
I said, that's an exciting book.
I said, but you've got to know it.
You've got to know it to know.
I mean, you've got to be one to appreciate what I'm feeling.
And it was excitement.
And I have to say that woman generated the excitement, didn't she?
Lenderie?
Oh, yeah.
She started to get into it, to explain what this book was.
You know, she had it.
She had a feeling.
Yes, she did.
I liked Hymas, or Tyrus Hermanson, too.
Now, which one was that?
From the Occidental College.
Yeah.
I've never met a fellow from the San Marano College.
But I have to say, some of the questions of him were naive, too.
Why didn't they do an inventory when they moved in here?
There was no reason to.
We were moving it from one large storage space to another large storage space.
Yeah, do you remember that?
Yeah.
We were going to a meeting of the Zamorano Palton.
I wonder.
I don't know.
I don't know if we can answer this.
Who's to say, Stephen, who knows?
I wish some, what do I know?
I hope.
That, uh, we've come out of this, okay?
Yeah.
Can we stop there after that?
Oh, yeah.
That's a place called FUNK Seeds.
F-U-N-K.
Is that a C, or is that the name of a guy that does it?
No, that's the Grand Seeds.
Is that right?
So that's for corn, right?
I suppose.
I keep thinking you're in Iowa.
I don't even know the answer to that.
No, I'm in Indiana Power.
I'm like, I don't know what I keep thinking.
There you go.
I don't even know.
I'm in Indiana.
Are you indifferent to food and things, Steve?
Oh, I love it.
Do you?
Nice food.
The only thing, I don't like seafood, but I like Italian food or ethnic foods.
The best Chinese restaurants I've eaten in is up in Toronto and Chinatown.
They're just superb.
Well, Canada's great all over for ethnic.
They have such an ethnic... Toronto in particular.
Oh, yeah, yeah, that's... Ah, that's an ethnic Mecca.
I stayed in Toronto for a while.
It's a nice city.
Oh, wonderful, wonderful.
Going up there and taking my wife with me as an airbag.
I used to stay on Jarvis off of Dundas, and I'd catch the streetcar.
Dundas has a street, a trolley car yet, you know, and I'd take that into Chinatown.
Chinatown's along Dundas.
can eat in those restaurants.
Yeah, that's crazy.
Oh, to travel again, you know.
Do you think that, this is a personal question, but don't answer what you're going to, but do you think that you will need some help of some sort of the kind that they think that you might be quiet, even if you're a call?
I wonder if they can give it to me, but yeah, after they put me through this, yeah, it's unnerving.
I'm going to try to get things together.
As far as help for what they want me to stop doing, my covers won't.
I mean, the cover's blown.
Is that the only reason why you wouldn't do it again?
Well, that and the remorse.
You recognize the wrongness of it.
Yeah.
I mean, did they make you aware of certain things about yourself that you might agree are true?
Or do you disagree with them?
Or do you think maybe...
And again, if this is an area you don't want to touch, that's fine.
They've made me much more fearful of them.
I didn't trust them to begin with.
Peerful of what?
Of them.
Their coldness.
You're talking about?
The government and the manner of handling this.
If they'd have got a guy like you to befriend me over a period of time, I think
You as a friend spending some time with me, you know, and it would have been worth $50,000 to get a nice guy like you.
You probably could have convinced me to mend my ways.
It would have been a gentle... And I wouldn't have taken any money for it either.
Yeah.
I mean, that's not the kind of thing.
They went about it in such a brutal manner.
That's blood money.
Yeah.
And it speaks of them, you know.
between eight and one you know I'd be interested now well of course they'll probably figure out what's happened about what Rhonda thinks of me you know of course I don't really
Do you think we should call him?
Do you want to call him and let him know that they shouldn't worry or something, or what?
Well, I don't quite know what his angle is.
I hope it's... I don't completely understand Ray, and I hope it's... He gets mad if I do impulsive things, but the impulsive things I've done so far in this case have been to my benefit.
Yeah.
You're not going to experience what it is to be with me and my associates and what it was to be there without me, you know.
All that was missing was the books.
You know, you're with the type of people I went with.
You ate in the places I ate in.
You rode the kind of cars I do on the highways like I do.
We didn't do any collecting.
I'm not in the position to do it.
We talked about it.
Yeah.
And you can draw your own analogies from it.
Tell me about the thrill of discovery.
Let's talk about the joys of collecting.
Finding something that's totally extraordinary and wonderful.
Isn't that great?
Can you think of anything that you found?
quite legitimately, let's say, in a barn.
Well, I can tell you something.
I was in Troy, New York.
I was down this area.
There was a burned-out brownstone.
All of this left was the facade.
There was nothing.
You go through the second set of front doors, and there was no building left.
And it's just the front.
You know how the row houses are cast?
I went up there, and there was a brand for
1884 pattern knob on the front door I wanted to get, and I got that.
I looked in at the second set of double doors, and there was a Ludwig Kruzinger doggy knob, which is the Shakespeare first folio of doorknob collectors on this door of this derelict building, and I got it.
How far in terms of the book did you go?
Oh, there's so many of them, you know.
I'm going to tell you the title of my book, all right?
Oh, thank you.
I consider it an honor that you include me in the chapter of the book.
Do you?
Yeah.
And you don't mind the title of the book?
No.
Do you like the title of the book?
No, I like it.
It's going to sell books, by the way.
I could call it book collectors and book collecting, you know, past and present, blah, blah, blah.
But I thought that was a nice...
a nice title that describes passion i'm writing about passion oh yeah i'm writing about human nature as much as i am writing about anything else and when i write about these people i'm writing about myself as well yeah because i bring this love you know my job i don't know if you know what my job is i mean i'm egotist in there yeah it's me me me you know i love me yeah one of those i love me books
Yeah, well, I've read them all.
Have you ever subscribed to the periodical, The Book Collector?
You know, the book?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
I've got them all, you know.
I've got every one of them.
I had them up to, well, they had a run like from $54 to $67, and then they quit, and then they started up again.
No, I've got them all, man.
They go from $54 right up to $89 right up to now.
I had them up to $67.
Well, that's a pretty good run.
They're selling for $12.56 each now.
And I got all the colophones, too.
You know, there was a colophones.
Oh, I remember those.
I had worked on those.
Those are wonderful.
I had, like, a couple of issues.
Yeah, the topography and illustration work in there.
They started in the 30s, didn't they?
Yeah, Riley was the 30s.
I guess it was in the 50s.
Just about where it ends, you know, the book collected kind of things.
They sort of had, for a dust jacket, sort of a clear tissue.
Yeah, exactly.
That's great.
Well, do you want to call Ray, or are you going to kind of get right back to Rhonda's?
Well, I got to call Ray and Rhonda, then I'll go stay with my father at the motel.
Okay.
Maybe I can call from the Madison's, and then... All right.
Just dump me up.
We'll go by the Madison's before we get to your place.
Okay.
Okay, fine.
I would invite you in the hotel, but there's all kinds of federal people in there.
Yeah, I don't want to go in.
I don't think you and I should be seen together in that place.
You're in bad company.
Well, it's interesting for me because I'm on the prowl.
Well, I would never have seen Kenny Rhodes if I hadn't gone down to breakfast this morning.
And just that one quote from him was worth everything.
I am a bad man.
I am a bad guy.
Yeah.
Let's see what that man did to appreciate it.
Let's see how that house was absolutely great.
Yeah.
It also shows you how insidiously he lied.
On the stand, on their own, doesn't it?
He represents the U.S.
government.
He's there, boy.
He blew me away with one.
Jack's saying about, uh, taking eight truckloads out of there with your permission.
He trusts me so much.
A lot of stuff behind because of what they left in the warehouse.
You mean the feds?
Yeah, and in Minneapolis they left a lot of stuff too.
Oops.
What's stuff?
Uh, some books are mostly stuff.
He just took everything.
He took the tiebacks for the drapes off.
I had sandwich glass tiebacks.
He beat them off with a hammer and broke the thread.
You know what sandwich glass is where it gets its name?
Sandwich Mass.
My family has a house in Sandwich.
Oh.
Right in Cape Cod.
Yeah.
I got a big old Labradory tree left.
My wife says even this weather is too cold for her.
That's almost Smithsonian quality.
Yeah, 78s.
And those are not, that's not bulk.
Those are selected records just like my books were.
Really?
People that are into ethnic music or
American jazz or early labels.
It's superb.
You know, I'm thinking about something that could help the perception of your rehabilitation.
How's that?
I'll leave it on.
At some point, you might want to donate those records, say, to the Smithsonian Institution or someplace.
I don't know.
You wouldn't think of doing that, would you?
Well, if I enjoy them, I listen to them and use them.
Well, at some point in your life, in the future, 20 years from now, 30 years from now.
What's going to happen to them?
I hate to see them.
Do you think they should go to another collector, or do you think they should go to a repository?
Who knows?
Do you think they should remain together as a collection?
Well, I'd have to organize them.
There's very little work done on them.
You know, 78s aren't that old or that much collected yet.
But there's only one book on the recording companies and labels.
It's Brian Russell, American Record Labels.
Some people collect them by the labels.
There were a lot of little studios all over the country, as well as big ones.
And they put out those records.
And sort of the incanabial recorded sound was like before 1908 when they had the single-based records, you know.
They're not as rare as,
in Cannabula would be, but yet, you know, there's a cradle period of recorded sound, too, you know.
The first ones were on the wax cylinders, but then the discs came in not very long afterwards.
And I have a lot of early... You love music, or you love the records?
Oh.
Was it music that attracted you to the records?
by the Wicked?
Well, really both in a way.
Some of the labels are very pictorial.
There's a label called the Lyric label that has a very colorful art of old woman with a white background with cherubs and flowers all around.
Very colorful.
It's a company that's recorded on a Hill and Dale label, or a cut, that type of cut.
And their machine, I only saw one.
I should have bought it.
heard of one other machine.
It was called the Lyraphone.
It was the Lyra record company.
It went out around the time of World War I. But it's a very beautiful label.
Well, that was common among, you know, records.
You collect them as artifacts as much as anyone else.
And I listen to them.
I use them.
I like the music of that period.
You know, I like the Columbia Green, the Green Label Columbia Epic Series, the E-Series, Matrix of Columbias.
You know, all the labels are the same, but yet I'm into that for the music.
There's different fields of collecting, and that's called discography, collecting discs.
Now, ask your father if he doesn't mind talking to me tomorrow.
Sure.
And I don't want him for six hours, an hour, you know, an hour of his time.
Yeah.
I think Ray said he probably could talk with me.
Ray's probably going to be kicked off at 8pm.
Oh, why do you think he'd be kicked off at you?
Well, they're probably shitting pennies right now wondering where you are.
You think so?
What time are you supposed to check in?
10.
Oh, you get till 10pm.
Yeah, I haven't highlighted anything.
Oh, you're fine.
You're fine.
Yeah.
Well, they're probably wondering.
They're not wondering where I am.
They're wondering where you are.
No, I told them I'm out.
You know, I...
Well, you were supposed to be.
Well, hey, I'm a free agent, man.
Well, I don't have to yell a bit.
I mean, hey, I'm over 21, and I'm lucky enough.
Piece of cake.
Don't sweat it.
I don't know how we'll, well, you'll be with us through the trial, how I'll ever see you again.
Well, we're going to talk.
You and I are going to talk at breaks during the trial.
Nothing to stop you until you come up and say, hello, Stephen, how are you doing?
Well, yeah, I'll see.
But I mean after this thing is over and that.
Well, I'm going home Saturday morning.
Yeah.
If this thing goes to the jury Friday, you have to free, according to your people, to talk to me.
If you want to.
Yeah.
We'll make fun and see you again.
I wish you will.
I wish you know it's a pleasure being here.
Thank you very much.
I'm looking forward to reading your book.
Well, what do you guys think about after having heard all this for the last seven, eight hours?
It's going to be neat.
What do you think about the questions that I've been asking Stephen and he's given?
Have you been paying attention to what we've been talking about?
Yeah.
I tell it.
What Stephen has done in the last 20 years, to me, he doesn't sound like he's someone who's a kid.
They close the art of reading books.
Right, so that collects them.
It gets the knowledge and then it reads from something, from one thing, and then right away knows that he's read something from another book that has kind of linked that together.
Yeah, how he kicked out all these weird books.
To me, I'd say,
would take them... Steven said, you know, that would have been a machine, right?
You know, he just came like a thief.
Usually a thief would steal to make profit and make money.
Well, I had a question I've got to ask.
Excuse me, Kevin.
That item that came up in the trial, the shin catalog,
How did you get that?
I never heard of that thing before.
I mean, I know the case.
Oh, I've read of it.
Was that something that came along, came around?
I had a real good collection of just clippings, and I followed that tin case very closely.
I even went as far as to go to Oberlin College to their college newspaper and go through his arrest.
And even Bill Moffat's house, I looked up.
you know i was sort of fanatic to i just wanted to see where moffett lived and he lived in a brick victorian house on a on a northeast corner i wanted to see what the guy who undid chin lived like and that i think i would like him he had a sort of a bitcoin moffett he's going to be here yeah yeah i think i'm i'm looking forward to meeting him he's a lover of
Well, you must have met him.
What kind of a... He wasn't, he hadn't taken over there yet.
I was out there in August, and Moppet hadn't taken over.
Oh, you haven't been to Oberlin and met him, huh?
Oh, I'm sorry, I thought you meant to Huntington.
He's now at the Huntington.
Yeah, I know he's at the Huntington, but... I haven't been to Oberlin, no.
Oh, so you've never met him, huh?
No, I haven't.
Oh, no, this will be a little for me.
But, I mean, were you comparing yourself to Shin?
Or were you just kind of interested in... I was just fascinated by the... It's sort of like...
a moth being drawn to flame, I was sort of fascinated by Shin's undoing.
But now Shin was a... I thought he was... He violated the books.
He sold them, you know?
Yeah, he was innocent.
But... Yeah.
But were you amused that he was regarded as the greatest at that point?
Yeah.
And did you feel that perhaps you were superior to him?
in terms of accomplishment?
Well, I wanted to see what, you know, I've got a little piece of inside information on that shin case that nobody else knows.
I met a mafia guy.
He's in the book called, there's a book I have about the mafia.
But this guy was the biggest loan shark in Cleveland.
He was affiliated with Presser and these guys.
His name is Martin DeFabio.
DeFabio.
And he's a... E-F-A-B-I-O.
Yeah, he's a renowned... Mafiosa.
Yeah, he was a loan shark.
I met him in Springfield, Missouri, and, of course, when you get into... That's a prison.
When you get into prison, everybody knows your rap.
Well, I got to talking with DeFabio, and he said... Now, this is when you were up for your evaluation.
Yeah, in the federal penitentiary.
He was in... He's a guy in his 70s, and he was in for some sort of...
And he said, why the hell did you get those books?
He says, they aren't worth a damn.